WEB-BASED COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT SYSYTEM FOR UNLAWFUL TRICYCLE SERVICES IN NAGUILIAN, ISABELA BELLEN, Johanna G. BERNABE, Rose Ann Q. GONZALES, Melanie J. January 2023
A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the College of Computing Studies, Information and
Communication Technology Isabela State University Cauayan Campus
In Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree Bachelor of Science in Computer
Science
BELLEN, Johanna G. BERNABE, Rose Ann Q. GONZALES, Melanie J. January 2023

ABSTRACT
One of the problems faced by the commuters of Naguilian, Isabela is the manual process of
reporting the conduct of tricycle drivers. In this study the Complaint Management System is
design and develop to help the commuters to report unlawful tricycle services. The main
objective of this study is to develop a system that can monitor complaints and evaluate the
perspective of users about the functionality, usability, and reliability.
The researchers conducted the study through questionnaire for evaluation, library research for
the review of the existing flow of the system that they used, and additional internet research for
the needed information in developing the system.
Based on the evaluation gathered, Web-based Complaint Management System in Naguilian,
Isabela proved that they are satisfied with the application that developed in terms of functionality
with weighted mean 4.38, usability with weighted mean 4.42, and reliability with weighted mean
4.23. As a result, shows that the Grand mean of the proposed system is 4.34 which interprets
wherein, respondents strongly agreed that the system is efficient and effective. This study will
benefit all the tricycle commuters of Nagulian, Isabela. Based on the conclusion, the
researchers strongly recommend the adaption of the system.

CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background of the study
The prevalent situation of tricycle commuters of Naguilian, Isabela experiences are inadequate
services offered by the drivers. Hence, satisfaction of the commuters is the challenge that we
are encountering. The Design and Implementation of the system is a web-based application that
will solve the problem facing commuters the conduct of tricycle drivers.

The solution to certain social problem is very effective these days which does not need to go to
a certain office to register a complaint and get documents. It is very easy to register a complaint
in this digital age with the help of the internet. With the help of applications, we can reduce the
barrier between government and the public so that the public can communicate directly with the
relevant authorities by telephone or computer according to Battula Rushi, et. al., (2021).
Complaint handling is an effective tool for public sector governance. Effective complaint
handling improves relationships between organizations and citizens by fostering trust and
accountability, helps address gaps in public service delivery, and supports innovation in public
service design (Andrew Prosser (2022)).
A Complaint Management System is considered as one of contemporary productivity
enhancement gear extensively by means of all companies and management. It provides an
online way of solving the problems faced by the public by saving time and eradicate corruption
(Lovely Singh, et al., (2021)).
Tricycle has become a primary mode of transportation in the community, drivers who behave
corruptly is inevitable. Commuters are complaining about overcharging drivers, which urged to
report misconduct. Commuters need this platform where they can easily report the conduct of
tricycle drivers. To resolve the problem this system wass made as a platform to report drivers
conduct easily and efficiently. It was designed for tricycle commuters to report violations
committed by tricycle drivers. For easy data management, the report sent to the system. The
accumulated data collected by the system will allow the admin to track abusive drivers faster as
well as commend the responsible ones.
This study conducts to assess the status of the services of tricycle drivers in Naguilian and to
establish its pressing needs for more and better services which will help to resolve the
predicaments suffered by the commuters.

1.2 Objectives of the study
The main objective of the study is to design and develop a Web-based Complaint Management
System for Unlawful Tricycle Services in Naguilian, Isabeta, intended to be used as a platform to
report the conduct of unlawful tricycle drivers.
Specifically aims to:
1. to implement the Web-based Complaint Management System for Unlawful Tricycle Services
in Naguilian, Isabela.
2. to record complaints for unlawful tricycle service.

3. evaluate through questionnaire the user's perspective on the system in terms of:
a) functionality
b) usability
c) reliability
1.3 Significance of the study
The study will be beneficial to the following individuals:
Commuters - This will help them feel secure and justly treated.
Admin The collected data and information by the system will help them track abusive tricycle
drivers.
Tricycle Drivers This will help thern have knowledge about the commuters perceive their
service.
Researchers The success of the study will help them develop more helpful applications for
everyone.
Future Researchers The study can serve as their basis in designing and developing their own
version of application.

1.4 Scope and Delimitations
This study covers the procedure for managing complaints in Naguilian, Isabela about the
conduct of tricycle drivers. The system was designed to be web-based application, to help
commuters to register their complaints.
This system is limited only for the users. The application cannot process the penalties or the
punishment for tricycle drivers found for being unlawful about their services.
CHAPTER II
THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK
2.1 Review of Related Literature and Studies

This chapter provides an overview of past research and different information from articles,
books, and internet which are used as references for the completion of this study. The
researchers introduce the framework for the case study that comprises the focus of the research
study which is the Complaints Management System for unlawful tricycle services in Nagullan,
Isabela. The following related literature and studies are found relevant to the study of profiling
system.
Foreign Literature
Websites act as a bridge between the people and the government officers in which the people
directly register their complaint to the government officers via internet, lack of paper movements
provides complaint management operations with a speed which was never envisaged in manual
mode at all. Website allows people to register a complaint and automatically schedules and
prompt operators to source complaint to concemed departments (M. Saranya, et, al., (2020)).
Several websites have been developed allowing drivers to post their complaints about other
motorists online. These websites allow drivers to describe the nature of the offensive behavior
and to identify the offending motorist by vehicle type, color, and license plate number. Some
websites also ask drivers to list the location where the event took place and the exact date and
time of the offence. The purpose of the study was to: (1) assess the research value of this novel
data source; (2) demonstrate the value of content analysis to the study of driver behavior: (3)
further validate an existing coding scheme; (4) determine whether this new data source would
replicate previous research findings regarding the most frequent types of driver complaints and
temporal distribution of these reports; (5) provide recommendations for improved driver training
and public safety initiatives based on these data (Christine M Wickens et, al., (2019)).
A mobile application to provide tricycle commuters a medium to report good and bad conduct of
tricycle drivers was developed. Ionic Framework was used to develop the Graphical User
Interface (GUI) while the Laravel framework served as the backend of the mobile application.
The rates and reports are transmitted into a web admin system that was developed using Vue.js
with an SQLite database. For the mobile application and web admin systern to work online
Heroku was used (Ertie Cusipag Abana, et, al., (2020)).
Local Literature
Environmental legislation must be considered, particularly in a variety of industries like transit,
particularly here in Cabanatuan City, the tricycle capital of the Philippines. This study aims to
evaluate TODA members' compliance with local environmental regulations and ordinances and
establish whether there is a connection between the characteristics of tricycle drivers and the
issues they face. Tricycle drivers had to deal with several issues, including unpleasant
customers, high fuel costs, and a decrease in passenger traffic brought on by the increase in
private vehicles (Fhrizz S. De Jesus, et, al., (2022)).

This investigation focuses on the operation of Tuguegarao City's Tricycle Regulation Unit (TRU),
specifically its powers and duties in relation to the compliance of tricycle operators and/or
drivers with current city legislation pertaining to public safety and security. The research is
framed by the ideas of social duty, discipline, and effective governance (Dr. Agustin, et, al.,
(2018)).
This study measured the usability of a web application for tricycle commuters. Toward this goal,
the effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction were measured using common usability
metrics. The effectiveness was measured in terms of task completion rate and user errors while
efficiency was measured in terms of time on task Ertie C. Abana (2019).
Foreign Studies
With the help of applications, we can reduce the barrier between government and the public so
that the public can communicate directly with the relevant authorities by telephone or computer.
Transparency between user and authority has helped resolve many issues in less time than
usual. These applications apply to various sectors such as fire department, municipal
department, finance department, electricity department etc. complaints made. The Online
Complaint Management System provides a web solution for community issues by saving time
and eliminating corruption (Jaya Siva, et, al., (2021)).
Complaint management has been substantially growing over the last few years. Firms have
started to realize the importance of complaint management as defensive marketing strategy
(Amit Kumar, et, al., (2018)).
Integrated complaints management system designed to give organizations the opportunity to
learn from customer feedback information and use information to reduce weaknesses in
business performance, efficient use of resources and maintain satisfactory capital base long
term relationship with their customers. Therefore, in this paper, a model is provided that could
clear weak points first, in other words, discover and understand the Working patterns and
factors affecting it. Second, it can provide solutions to the problem (Shabnam Mohammadi
(2017)).
Local Studies
Participatory governance is a democratic process intended to involve citizens in the
management of public institution. By providing them platforms through which they can access
the government, transparency and accountability in public governance is enhanced. The study
aims at describing and evaluating the Complaints Management Program of the DPWH Nueva
Ecija 2nd District Engineering Office based in Cabanatuan City (Allan V Mantaring, et, al.,
(2019)).
Effective complaint handling improves relationships between organizations and citizens by
fostering trust and accountability, helps address gaps in public service delivery, and supports

innovation in public service design. Despite these benefits, complaint handling practices at the
local government level in British Columbia (BC) is often ad hoc, poorly designed, or non-existent
(Prosser (2022)).
Web-based management system which shall reinvent barangay management from a traditional
and centrally dependent unit towards a more inclusive and citizens-oriented scheme. It
essentially aims to streamline existing administrative processes in terms of filing complaints and
generating apt and accurate local statistics. The researcher has adopted the prototype
methodology in the development of the system. It focuses on creating and testing system
features, graphical user interface and scheduling iterations (Claire Ong Carpio (2020)).

2.2 Concept of the Study
Figure 1. Conceptual Framework
The user needs to log in and register first in the Complaint app, after the user got verified by the
system, they able to see and monitor the application. In registering information of the users and
adding complaints will send data to the admin and save using Firebase.

2.3 Definition of terms
Complaint App a web based application with which you can add your complaint about unlawful
tricycle services. The purpose of a complaint app is to make it easier for customers to voice their
concerns and for companies to manage and respond to those concerns in a timely and efficient
manner.
User- a person who has had a negative experience with a tricycle driver or operator and wishes
to file a complaint about the tricycle service.
Admin responsible for managing and monitoring the system, including reviewing, and
addressing complaints submitted by users.
Dashboard - a user interface that allows administrators and other authorized users to view and
manage the data and functionality of the system.
Firebase - It provides a wide range of services for data storage, authentication, and real-time
updates. To store and retrieve information about complaints, as well as to authenticate and
manage users.
Web-Based-a software platform that can be accessed through a web browser and is designed
to allow users to submit complaints about tricycle drivers who are engaging in unlawful services.

CHAPTER III OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK
3.1 Technical Background
Table 1. Shows the Software and Hardware used in the application in developing the system.
3.2 Methods
Figure 2. Homepage
A web-based complaint system is a platform that allows individuals to submit complaints about
unlawful tricycle services. This allows commuters of Naguilian, Isabela to report any instances of
misconduct by tricycle operators. Whether overcharging, reckless driving, or any other violation,
the researchers would like to help about the mentioned concerns and hold these operators
accountable. The system is easy to use, and complaints will be promptly reviewed and
addressed.
Figure 3. Log in
To log in to this system, users need to have an account and enter username and password.
Once logged in, users will be able to access the features of the system, such as submitting new
complaint or checking the status of an existing complaint. Logging in to this system helps to
protect your personal information and ensure that only authorized users can access the system.
It also allows you to access your account and any information or settings associated with it.
Figure 4. Register
To register means to sign up or enroll in it. This usually involves providing some personal
information and creating a username and password. For example, if users want to use a
website or online service, being registered is necessary sary for an account before accessing
full features of the site. This helps the website or service keep track of its users and provide
personalized experience. It also allows users to log in to certain account and access information
and settings.
Figure 5. View Profile
A profile in a web based complaint system for unlawful tricycle services is a set of personal
information and preferences associated with a specific user on the system. This information is
typically used to identify the user and provide a personalized experience on the system. A
profile may include things like the user's name, contact information, gender, and birthdate. A
profile is often created when a user registers for an account on the system and can be updated

by the user at any time. The profile is an important part of the system because it allows users to
access personal information and customize the experience on the platform.
Figure 6. Edit Profile
Updating profile on a web-based complaint system for unlawful tricycle services means making
changes to the personal information and settings associated with user's account on the system.
This could include things like name, contact information, password, and preferences. By
updating profile, users can keep information accurate and current, and customize experience on
the system. To update profile, you may need to log in to your account and navigate to your
profile or settings page. From there, you can make any necessary changes and save them to
apply the updates. Updating profile is important because it ensures that the system has
accurate information and allows users to customize experiences on the platform.
Figure 7. Add Complaints
Adding a new complaint means submitting a formal expression of dissatisfaction or grievance to
Tricycle Services. When adding a new complaint, users may be asked to provide some personal
information and details about specific concerns. This information can be used to help the
organization understand complaint and take appropriate action to address it. By adding a new
complaint, you are bringing attention to an issue that needs to be resolved. This can help the
organization identify and address problems with unlawful tricycle services.
Figure 8. Complaint Status
In a web-based complaint system for unlawful tricycle services, checking the status of a
complaint means finding out where it stands in the process of being addressed. Checking the
status of complaint can help users to understand what steps should be done to addressed
concerns, and whether any further action is needed on your part. It can also give you an idea of
how long it may take for your complaint to be resolved.
Figure 9. Log out.
Logging out of a web-based complaint system for unlawful tricycle services is the process of
ending a session on the system. When you log out, you are typically prompted to enter your
username and password again to verify your identity. This helps to protect your privacy and
keep your information secure. After logging out, users will no longer have access to the system,
or any personal information or settings associated with your account. To log out of the system,
users may need to click on a log out button or link or navigate to a specific log out page. This
ends user session and log out of the system. Logging out is important because it helps to
protect personal information and ensures only authorized users can access the system.

3.3 Methodology

Figure 10. Rapid Application Development
In this figure, it discusses about the methodology that was used to develop the system. The
system development life cycle that was used is Rapid Application Development (RAD) is chosen
to develop this Complaint Management System, it explains more details about every phase that
involve in this system develop.

3.4 Different phases in designing and developing the system.
3.4.1 Planning
In this phase, defines the requirements of the project. Users and analysts meet to identify
objectives of the application or system and to identify information requirements arising from
those
objectives.
3.4.2 Analysis
In this phase, the requirements of the system are discussed, and the focus is more on what
does the system should do and how it will work, and going reviewing the Complaint form and all
the flow regarding complaint making so that it will be easier to understand.
3.4.3 Design
This phase is the program, application development and coding. This is important throughout
the process.
3.4.4 Implementation
This is the Implementation phase where the finished product goes to launch. The
implementation phase will do some checking to all the systems modules. If the coding has an
error, find an error of this system, and find ways to overcome it.
3.4.5 Testing and Integration
In this phase, the overall testing time is reduced in the RAD model as the prototypes are
independently tested during every iteration. However, the data flow and the interfaces between
all the components need to be thoroughly tested with complete test average.
3.6 Timeline of the Study

Figure 12. Gantt Chart
This diagram shows and explain the different activities that was conducted to achieve and finish
thesis project.

CHAPTER IV RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
This chapter presents the result, analysis, and interpretations of the data collected in pre
-survey and post-survey. The tables discuss the summary and findings of the gained information
and reactions from the respondents by way of Likert scale survey questionnaires to the
commuters of Naguilian, Isabela. The tables discuss the benefits and perceptions of the
respondents in the proposed system.
Table 2. Data were analysed using the frequency count and weighted mean using the scale
below.
Likert Scale, Pimentel, J.L. (2010) shows the weighted mean range and its descriptive
interpretation as evaluated by the respondents.
In finding the weighted Mean in the presentation, analysis and interpretation of data, the
researchers used the formula:
WM1+++ N
Where,
WM-Weighted Mean
X1+X2 +X3+...x Sum of Scores/Means
N - Total Number of Respondents/Means

PRE-SURVEY
Table 3. Mean Response and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents' evaluation on the
manual complaint management system in terms of Functionality.
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents' evaluation on the
manual system in terms of Functionality.

The table reveals the respondents strongly agree that the the manual process needs a lot of
time and effort (4.21). It shows that the committing records in manual recording (4.15) and can't
easily access the records (4.37). All (items) were strongly agreed by the respondents; thus, the
manual is not effective based on the computed weighted mean of 4.24.
Table 4. Mean Response and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents evaluation on the
manual complaint management system in terms of Usability
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents' evaluation on the
manual system in terms of Usability.
The table reveals that the manual management system is missing of files and documents based
on the table 4.27 which falls on "strongly agree" interpretation. It also shows that the
respondents reports are inaccurate (4.38) and unauthorized person can access the records.
(4.21).
Table 5. Mean Response and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents evaluation on the
manual complaint management system.
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents evaluation on the
manual system in terms of Reliability.
The table reveals that the Efforts and patient are highly needed based on the computed
weighted mean of 4.37, which falls on "strongly agree" interpretation. In addition, some of record
are not properly organized of 4.16 while it is time consuming in locating documents 4.27.
However, both have the mean which fall on "strongly agree" interpretation. Thus, the manual is
not reliable.
Table 6. Summary of the Mean Responses and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents
evaluation on the manual complaint management system.
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents' evaluation on the
manual complaint management system.
The table reveals that the manual complaint management system is functional (4.24), usable
(4.29), and reliable (4.27) based on the general mean of 4.27 which falls on "strongly agree".
POST-SURVEY
Table 7. Mean Response and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents evaluation on the
developed system in terms of Functionality.
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents' evaluation on the
system in terms of Functionality.

The table reveals the respondents strongly agree that the system meets the functions required
(4.37). It shows that it is effective and efficient in reporting services of unlawful tricycle drivers
(4.38) and can perform or fix the problem within a given time (4.40). All (items) were strongly
agreed by the respondents, thus the system is effective based on the computed weighted mean
of 4.38.
Table 8. Mean Response and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents evaluation on the
developed system in terms of Usability.
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents' evaluation on the
system in terms of Usability.
The table reveals that the system is usable based on the computed weighted mean of 4.37
which falls on "strongly agree" interpretation. It also shows that the respondents strongly agree
that the system is appropriate to the need of users (4.47) and is easy to operate (4.37) and can
submit complaint clear and easy to understand (4.27).
Table 9. Mean Response and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents evaluation on the
developed system in terms of Reliability.
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents' evaluation on the
system in terms of Reliability.
The table reveals that the system is reliable based on the computed weighted mean of 4.23
which falls on "strongly agree" interpretation. In addition, item 3 "Driving with valid licensed or
non-expired licensed" obtained the highest mean of 4.33 while item 5 "Driving at speeds over
the stablished legal limit" got the lowest mean of 4.17. However, both have the mean which fall
on "strongly agree" interpretation. Thus, the system is reliable.
Table 10. Summary of the Mean Responses and Descriptive Interpretation of the respondents
evaluation on the developed system
The table shows the mean and descriptive interpretation of respondents' evaluation on the
developed system.
The table reveals that the developed system is functional (4.38), usable (4.37), and reliable
(4.23) based on the general mean of 4.33 which falls on "strongly agree".

CHAPTER V SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS, AND RECOMMENDATIONS

In this chapter, the summarized result of findings, proven conclusion and recommendations are
included based on the gathered facts from the respondents about the proposed system of
Web-based Complaint Management System for Unlawful Tricycle Services in Naguilian, Isabela.
Summary
The researchers discussed the phases of development of the study as stated in the previous
chapters. It has detailed aim to become a Complaint Management System.
After a thorough analysis gathered data, the researcher's findings reveal that:
Analysis shows that the perception of the respondents on the proposed Web-based Complaint
Management System for Unlawful Tricycle Services in Naguilian, Isabela is strongly agreed that
the system is effective and efficient. Most of the respondents agreed that the Complaint app is
beneficial to all commuters.
In terms of the functionality of the system, most of the respondents answered "Strongly agree"
as it garnered a category mean of 4.38, the same in terms of usability of the system, it shows
that the respondents also "Strongly agree on this aspect as it garnered a category mean of 4.37.
In terms of reliability, the respondents disclosed that they "Strongly agree' as evidenced by its
category mean of 4.23.
To sum up, the respondents evaluated the proposed system in terms of functionality. usability,
reliability, most of the respondents "Strongly agree" and it gamered an overall mean of
4.33.
Conclusions
Based on all the data gathered from the respondents, the researchers concluded that:
The respondents agreed that it is timely to change the existing manual complaint management
into Web-based Complaint Management System, and the benefits of the system were
determined by the respondents in terms of functionality, usability, and reliability.
1. The system can benefit the respondents in terms of complaining the unlawful tricycle services
in Naguilian, Isabela.
2. On the process of evaluation, the researchers used a questionnaire method with the following
criteria namely; (1) Functionality, (2) Usability, (3) Reliability.
3. The proposed system received "Strongly Agree" in terms of functionality (4.38), usability
(4.37), and reliability (4.23), with the general mean of 4.33.

Recommendations
Based on the findings and conclusion the researchers highly recommend that if possible and for
future enhancement of the development:
The Municipality of Naguilian, Isabela should adopt the Web based complaint management
system to improve the process of disseminating issues related to tricycle services and to ease
the problems encountered by the commuters.